A product manager at Facebook comes to you and tells you that friend requests are 
down 10%.

What would you do?

------

First off all when PM tells that Friend requests are down by 10%, this is something 
definitely something to investigate

Clarifying questions

> Is this issue comes from user initiation or acceptance ?
  Does friend requests refers to people sending friend requests ? or friend requests
  being accepted / ignored ?
  Lets say that the number of total friend requests sent by active users 
 
 > Is this one time dip ? or Gradual decline over weeks / months ?
  Its been declining for months gradually
 
 > Is this across globally or in a specific region ?
   Its only in USA
   
 > Did users behavior change ?  say less active users ?
   Lets assume, daily and monthly active users trends have remained stable
  
 > Are the friends are down in web? or IOS / Android ?
   Lets say its happening across all platforms 
   
 > Any change on friend requests notifications ? or discovery features ? or visibility privacy settings ?
   i.e organice search,people you know or who can send you friend requests ?
   Lets assume there might've been minor changes in "people you may know feature"
   
 
Assessing the findings 

> We know no of friend requests down by 10% in usa, its has been happening gradually for months
  daily and monthly acitve users remained same although there is minor changes in 
  "people you may know feature"
 
> Worth while to look at the performance and guardrail metrics of this feature like 
CTR - percentage of suggestions that results in user sending a friend requests
Acceptance rate of friend suggestions 
Tune spent on friend discovery
percentage of active users sending requests
suggested friends removal rate per user
Notification turn off rate 


Solution

We have 5 different metrics that would give us a good idea of possible root causes of decreasing friend requests. We should look at these metrics over time to capture any trend changes. 
If any metric is moving counter-intuitively against the number of friend requests sent then those metrics would be useful to inform a hypothesis for an experiment to understand better 
why the friend requests are down. 
For example, the correlation between the percentage of active users sending requests and the number of friend requests sent starts to decrease overtime.


Validation 

create hypothesis and validate it 
